16

[sunto (sna), spring, aaa]

err-sulio, leap up.

in-sulto, leap upon, rush through.

con-sul, counselror, consul.

con-suli), consider, consult.

con-silium, deliberation, purpose.

exsul, one who leaves his own
land.

[SUPER, above]

super, above.

superus, high.

summus [for sopimus], highest.

superbus, above, haughty.

err-supero, appear above, over·
power.

supra, on the upper side, above.

supremus, that is above, highest,
last.

ΤΑ-, demonstrative stem, so.

tam, in such a degree.

tan-dem [for tam-den]‚ just so iar.

tantus, of such siae, so great.

tantum, so much, to such a de-
gree.

iot, so many.

totiens, so many times.

TAG-, touch, seiae.

tango. touch.

attingo, touch at, corne to.

con-tingo, touch on all sides,
touch.

tactus, touching, contact.

(at-tactus), touching, contact.

intactus, untouched, unbroken.

WORD-GROUPS.

mo, turn, mot.

torqueo, twist, whirl.
con-torqueo, twist violently,hnl
tortus, twisted, winding.
tortilis, twisted.

TEG-, cover.

tego, cover.

tegumen (tegmen), covering.
tectum, coven'ng thing, roos.

Tmt- (TA-), stretch.

tenuis, stretched out, fine.
tener, extended, tender.
teneo, extend, hold, keep.
abs-tineo, keep from, retrain
sus-tineo, hold up, raise.
eon-tinus, immediately.

tendo, stretch, direct.

ex-tendo, stretch forth, extend.

intendo, stretch out, raise.

ostendo [for obs-tendoJ, stretch
out before, show.

por-tendo [for pro-tendo], stretci
forth, predict.

osten-to [for obs-tentat leet
stretcbing out, show.

con-tentus, held together, satis
fied.

in-tentus, stretched, attentive.

por-tentum, loretelling thing
omen.

TER, shake, scare.

terror, frightening, alarm.

con-terreo, completely irighten
tetribilis, to be ieareh, mm,

 

