Tun aaran), vn.

might not be borne into her harbors and undergo
such hideous change, nor yet approach those cursed
shoreS, Neptune filled their sails with the winds
they wished, and sped thern on their way, bearing
them past the seething shallowa

And now the sea was reddening with beams of
light and down from high heaven Aurora was shin-
ing, saffron-clad in her rosy car, when oi a sudden
the winds are hushed, every breeze grows still and
the oars labor in a sluggish sea. Then it was that
Aeneas, looking forth from the level water, sees a
vast forest. Through this the Tiber, a beauteous
stream, with whirling eddies and all yellow with
sand pours onward into the sea. Around and above
birds of varied plumage, haunting the banks and
stream, were soothing the air with their song, and
flitting through the wood. Aeneas bids his comrades
change their course and landward turn their prows,
and with joylul heart enters the dark-shadowed river.

Help me now, Erato, while I uniold who were the
kings, what the condition, what the state oi things
in ancient Latium, when first a stranger host
brought its fleet to Ausonia’s shores, and while Ι re-
call the beginning of the first fight. Prompt thou,
thou goddess thy bard. Ι shall tell ol dreadlul
wars, I shall tell of armies ranged for battle, of
kings driven by passion to deadly suile, ol the
Tyrrhenian force, and all Hesperia mustered under
arms. A greater series ol events rises to my view;
a greater task Ι ιιηάεῐῖαὶω,

King Latinus, now iar on in years, was ruling 45
country and cities with tranquil sway in long-con-
tinued peace. He, so tradition tells, was born of
Faunus and a Laurentian nymph, Marica. Faunus’
father was PicuS, and he claims thee, Saturnus,ashis
sire 3 thou wert the remotest founder ol thorace. ec

 

