THE suumn, v11. 33

now, thou scorn of men, face thankless dangers. 4²5
Go, mow down the Tuscan lines, shield the Latins
with peace. Just this the daughter of Saturn who
hath all power bade me with her own lips say to

thee lace to face, while thou shouldgt be slumbering

in the tranquil night. Come then and joyfully get
thy soldiers ready to arm and march forth from the
gates to war; and as for the Phrygiam, who have 430
cast anchor in the fair stream, burn thou the leaders

and their painted barks. Heaven's mighty power
commands it. Let King Latinus himself, unless he
consents to give thee thy bride and obey our be-
hest, beware, and at last find out what Turnus is

as a foe.'’

Thereat the hero, deriding the prophetess, thus 435
in turn makes answer: “ That a fleet has been borne
into Tiber’s stream, is not, as thou thinkest‚ news ζ ’
that has escaped my ears. Conjure me not such ⁰·
mighty terrors Queenly Juno is not uumindful of
me. But thee, mother, old age o’ercome by sloth 440
- and no longer capable of truth, plagues with cares
in vain, and mocks thee, prophet though thou art,
with groundless sear, amid the arms of kings. Let
thy care be to watch over the statues and temples of
the gods3 wars and peace shall be the work of men,
by whom wars must be waged.’'

Such the words at which Alecto blazed forth into 445
wrath. But the youth, even while speaking, a sud-
den trembling seizes in the limbs. His eyes grow
fixed, so many snakes does the fury hiss withal, so
hideous the iace that shows itself. Then rolling her
flaming eyes, as he {altered and sought for further
.·wordS, she thrust him back, and from her locks
raised up two snakes, and made her lash resound 45ο
3η(1 added these words with loaminglips*¹ “ualuis
1, o’ercome by sloth, whom old age no hone&

 

